**Unit 2: Ratio and Proportion** <span id="2"></span> 

*Have you ever been on a long trip and asked “are we there yet”? Have
you ever tried to decide which store or brand has a better deal on
something you want to purchase? In this unit, you’ll get the opportunity
to learn how to answer questions that involve unit rates, including
constant speed and pricing. You will learn about how quantities are
compared, how speed and time can be used to figure out your estimated
arrival time, and how using a percent to find the part of a whole can
help when you have to pay taxes or leave a tip.*

**Unit 2 Time Advisory**  
Completing this unit should take approximately 6 hours and 45 minutes.

☐ Subunit 2.1: 2 hours and 30 minutes

☐ Subunit 2.2: 2 hours and 15 minutes

☐ Subunit 2.3: 2 hours

**Unit2 Learning Outcomes**  
Upon successful completion of this unit, you will be able to:

-   Describe a comparison of two quantities as a ratio using the
    appropriate ratio language.

-   Define a ratio as a unit rate.

-   Convert within-measurement units using ratio reasoning.

-   Make a table to represent equivalent ratios.

-   Identify ratio and rate reasoning by using tables, graphs, diagrams,
    or equations.

-   Explain how ratios and rates fit in the context of a real-world
    situation.

-   Solve for a percent of a quantity.

-   Solve problems that involve finding the whole, given the part and a
    percent.

Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/1)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/2)

-   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.4](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/4/)

-   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.2](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/2/)

**2.1 Ratio** <span id="2.1"></span> 
**2.1.1 What Is a Ratio?** <span id="2.1.1"></span> 

*When you compare two quantities you are using a ratio. We use ratios
all the time to describe situations and events. Perhaps you are having
some friends over and you plan to order pizza. You know your six friends
will eat two pizzas. So the ratio of friends to pizza is 6 to 2. As you
will learn in this subunit, there are three ways to write a ratio, and
specific rules govern the order in which ratios are written.  *

-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Equivalent Ratios”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Equivalent
    Ratios”](http://www.ck12.org/book/CK-12-Middle-School-Math-Concepts-Grade-6/section/8.1/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read about Casey looking to buy milk at the store. As
    you read, write down the definition of the word ratio when it is
    given to you. Notice there are three different ways to write a
    ratio. You should become familiar with each of these ways and
    understand that they are used interchangeably. Also notice that a
    ratio can compare a part to a part as well as a part to a whole. It
    is very important that you recognize that the order in which the
    quantities are mentioned in the question is the order in which you
    write your answer. Continue reading through the examples and
    complete the guided practice. Watch the first video, Khan Academy’s
    “Introduction to Ratios.” While watching, solve the problems with
    the instructor (notice his simplifying mistake with the dogs:horses
    ratio that had to be fixed with the quotation bubble). The
    instructor also introduces to you the idea that three quantities can
    make up a ratio. The second video is more of the same type of
    example. Feel free to skip this video if you are feeling confident
    with the idea of ratios.

    Reading about ratios and watching the video should take you
    approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

**2.1.2 Ratio Language to Describe a Relationship** <span
id="2.1.2"></span> 

*When you are talking about a ratio it is important to use the correct
language. As you noticed in the previous subunit, the word to is used to
compare the quantities. In this subunit you will have the opportunity to
practice word problems involving ratios. As you read each question,
think about if the ratio is a part-to-part ratio or a part-to-whole
ratio. *

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Ratio Word Problems”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Ratio Word
    Problems”](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/rates-and-ratios/ratios_and_proportions/e/ratio_word_problems) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Notice the use of
    the word to as each item is compared. Practice the ratio word
    problems until you feel confident that you understand how to use
    ratios in various forms (recommended a minimum of 10 minutes of
    practice).

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

**2.1.3 Making Tables of Equivalent Ratios** <span id="2.1.3"></span> 

*A ratio, like a fraction, can be simplified or expanded, but still be
equivalent. We often use ratios to figure out bigger quantities.
Remember the pizza party you had in the last subunit? What if you were
planning an even bigger event hosting 48 people? In this next subunit
you will learn about how a ratio table will be used to help organize
your equivalent ratios. *

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Will Kimbley’s “Using Ratio Tables”**

    Link: YouTube: Will Kimbley's [“Using Ratio
    Tables”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d625kdtsUIw) (YouTube)  
      
     Instructions: As you watch the video, make the tables and fill them
    out as the instructor does the same.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3a](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/a)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to Will Kimbley.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Mixing
    Concrete”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Mixing
    Concrete”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/053/original/illustrative_mathematics_53.pdf?1354929272) (PDF)

    Instructions: Read the question about mixing sand and cement to make
    concrete. It is important to note that the sand to cement ratio of
    5:3 will combine to make 8 parts concrete. You do not need to
    account for any cement settling between particles of sand. Solve the
    problem before you scroll down to the answer. Read the commentary
    piece about how various contexts expect us to assume that the ratio
    parts combine to make a whole. Notice the two strategies shown in
    the solution.

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Ratio of Boys
    to Girls”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Ratio of Boys to
    Girls”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/496/original/illustrative_mathematics_496.pdf?1347922207) (PDF)

    Instructions: Read the question about the ratio of boys to girls in
    a class. Solve parts a and b before scrolling down to see the
    answers. The commentary piece gives you some insight into ratios and
    how you can solve. There are multiple solution strategies. Read
    through all of them and compare the various ideas to how you solved
    the problem.

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/1)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0
    Unported](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

**2.1.4 Ratio Reasoning with Measurement Conversions** <span
id="2.1.4"></span> 

*Ratios can help convert between various measurement types. Whether you
are familiar with the American Unit Conversion or the Metric Unit
Conversion, the idea is the same. A smaller measurement (distance or
weight) can convert to a larger measurement using the ratio reasoning.
This subunit will show you some examples of how to convert between
various measurement units. The expectation here is that you see that we
can convert between units, so don’t feel like you need to memorize all
the various conversions. *

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “American Unit
    Conversion”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“American Unit
    Conversion”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ozSnWr4do5o) (YouTube)

    Instructions: As you watch the video notice how the instructor is
    always going back to the conversion table to help with the ratio
    reasoning. Use this as tool. Similar conversion tables can be found
    easily on the Internet. Your goal is to be able to set up a unit
    fraction as shown in the examples.

    Watching this video and taking notes should take you approximately
    15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3d](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/d)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

-   **Explanation: Khan Academy’s “Metric Unit Conversion”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s [“Metric Unit
    Conversion”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/rates-and-ratios/unit_conversion/v/unit-conversion) (YouTube) 

    Instructions: This video shows how you convert between metric units.
    Take notes of the prefixes and their values given in the first two
    minutes of the video. Having these written down will be helpful. The
    video goes through a few different strategies to convert within
    metric units. Pick a strategy that makes the most sense to you.

    Watching the video and taking notes should take you approximately 15
    minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3d](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/d)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

-   **Web Media: Paula Swanson’s *MrsSwansonsClass* Wiki: “Metric
    System”**

    Link: Paula Swanson’s *MrsSwansonsClass Wiki*: [“Metric
    System”](https://mrsswansonsclass.wikispaces.com/metric+system) (YouTube)

    Instructions: Scroll down to the image of a chalkboard with each of
    the prefixes listed as stair steps. This is a common way to view the
    metric system and to help remember the conversions. Notice the
    mnemonic device listed under each word “King Henry Does Usually
    Drink Chocolate Milk.” The first letter in each of the words stands
    for the prefix in the metric system. There are also some hints about
    how multiplying or dividing by 10 makes conversions pretty simple.
    Copy this image into your notebook for future reference. 

    Taking notes should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3d](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/d)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/). It is
    attributed to Paula Swanson.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Khan Academy’s “Units”**

    Link: Khan Academy’s
    [“Units”](http://www.khanacademy.org/math/arithmetic/rates-and-ratios/unit_conversion/e/units) (HTML)

    Instructions: This page provides a series of practice problems that
    you can answer and check online. Each question has a solution worked
    out step-by-step if you need hints along the way. Focus on the
    prefix of the units given to you, as they will guide you to know if
    the unit is getting smaller or larger (recommended a minimum of 10
    minutes of practice).

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed (*Common Core*):

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3d](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/d)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/). It is
    attributed to the Khan Academy.

**2.2 Unit Rate** <span id="2.2"></span> 

*Have you ever seen a speed limit sign? It might read 70 MPH. This is a
form of a unit rate. Specifically, it means you are allowed to drive 70
miles in one hour. The units used here are miles and hours. Unit rates
are very helpful when you are trying to compare items. You have the
choice of buying 12 packs of gum for $10.50 or 4 packs of gum for $3.10.
Which is a better deal? If you found the unit rate (price per one pack)
for each situation, you would know which choice is a better deal. This
subunit will also teach you the difference between a rate and a unit
rate. *

**2.2.1 Finding a Unit Rate** <span id="2.2.1"></span> 
-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Rates and Unit
    Rates”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Rates and Unit
    Rates”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jlEJU-l5DWw) (YouTube)

    Instructions: When looking at the second slide in the video, notice
    the similarities and differences of rates and unit rates. Write down
    the definition of each, as well as an example of each. Throughout
    the video a calculator is used to do the division in each problem.
    Sixth-grade students are expected to know how to do this division
    (often involving decimals) without a calculator. While a calculator
    is a valuable tool and speeds up the process, you should do the
    mathematical calculations using your long division skills. As you
    watch the video and become familiar with how to convert a rate into
    a unit rate, pause the video before the solutions are given, solve
    on your own, and then check your solution with the video instructor.

    Watching this video and working through the examples should take you
    approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3b](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/b)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

-   **Explanation: CK-12: “Comparison of Unit Rates”**

    Link: CK-12: [“Comparison of Unit
    Rates”](http://www.ck12.org/book/CK-12-Middle-School-Math-Concepts-Grade-6/section/8.5/) (HTML)

    Instructions: Read through the explanation on unit rates. Remember a
    unit rate is when you simplify a rate down to one. Go through the
    “Guidance,” “Examples,” “Vocabulary” and “Guided Practice” sections.
    Skip the first two videos; however, watch the third video, “James
    Sousa, Example of Determining Unit Rate.” Try to solve the unit rate
    question before he gives you the answer. Do the practice questions
    at the end of the lesson. 

    Reading this explanation, watching the video, and working the
    example problems should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3b](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/b)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). It is
    attributed to CK-12.

**2.2.2 Using Unit Rate for Unit Pricing and Constant Speed** <span
id="2.2.2"></span> 
-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Price Per
    Pound and Pounds Per Dollar”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Price Per Pound and Pounds Per
    Dollar”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/000/549/original/illustrative_mathematics_549.pdf?1343857011) (PDF)

    Instructions: Read through the situation about buying beans at the
    grocery store. Answer questions a - d before scrolling down the
    page. Read through the answers and strategies as you check your
    work.

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/2)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “Running at a
    Constant Speed”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“Running at a Constant
    Speed”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/001/175/original/illustrative_mathematics_1175.pdf?1363815755) (PDF)

    Instructions: Answer the questions a - d. Then, scroll down to find
    the solutions. This activity has a lot of “teacher talk” between the
    question and the solution. Feel free to read as little or as much of
    this as you would like.

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/2)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: Illustrative Mathematics: “The
    Escalator”**

    Link: Illustrative Mathematics: [“The
    Escalator”](http://s3.amazonaws.com/illustrativemathematics/illustration_pdfs/000/001/181/original/illustrative_mathematics_1181.pdf?1363815748) (PDF)

    Instructions: Read through the question. Notice that this question
    is a multiple-choice question where having more than one correct
    answer is possible. When you have answered the question, scroll down
    to find the solution. This activity has a lot of “teacher talk”
    between the question and the solution. Feel free to read as little
    or as much of this as you would like. However, do read the first two
    paragraphs of “Mathematical Content.” The paragraphs explain why the
    correct answers are correct and why the distractors are included,
    yet incorrect. After you read these two paragraphs, describe some
    key mathematical words that lead you to believe that those answers
    were correct or incorrect. Include a few sentences that could be
    used as words of advice when dealing with multiple-choice problems
    like this one.

    Completing this activity should take you approximately 30 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/1)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/2)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.RST.6-8.4](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/RST/6-8/4/)
    -   [CCSS.ELA-Literacy.WHST.6-8.2](http://www.corestandards.org/ELA-Literacy/WHST/6-8/2/)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/).

**2.3 Percent of a Quantity** <span id="2.3"></span> 

*At a recent sports event, the broadcaster announced the stadium
attendance of 59,800. You overhear a fellow fan state. “That means this
stadium is 92% full.” Can you figure out the number of people it would
take to fill the stadium to capacity? This is a situation where you
would use what is called the percent equation. During this subunit you
will learn various strategies to solve problems involving finding the
whole. *

-   **Explanation: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s “Solving
    Percent Problems Using the Percent Equations”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Solving Percent
    Problems Using the Percent
    Equations”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LkTYkHbUiU4) (YouTube)

    Instructions: This video goes through the various types of problems
    you might see while using the percent equation. The instructor talks
    about the importance of the words of, is, and what. These are key
    words not only in the percent equation but in all math problems. You
    might remember the use of the word of when you completed the
    multiplying fractions subunit in unit one.

    Watching this video should take you approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/c)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    “Example 1: Solve a Percent Problem Using a Percent Equation”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Example 1: Solve a
    Percent Problem Using a Percent
    Equation”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A_IHTwXWXl0) (YouTube)

    Instructions: This video has an example for you to practice and
    check your solution. Watch the first 30 seconds of the video as the
    instructor introduces the problem. Pause the video at 0:30 and solve
    the problem. Watch the remainder of the video to check your
    solution. Notice how the instructor’s last step is to verify that
    the solution makes sense. Be sure to do this, as well, once you
    solve a problem.

    Watching this video and solving the problem should take you
    approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/c)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    “Example 2: Solve a Percent Problem Using a Percent Equation”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Example 2: Solve a
    Percent Problem Using a Percent
    Equation”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ke4ZTaI1wt8) (YouTube)

    Instructions: This video has an example for you to practice and
    check your solution. Watch the first 30 seconds of the video as the
    instructor introduces the problem. Pause the video at 0:30 and solve
    the problem. Watch the remainder of the video to check your
    solution. Notice how the instructor’s last step is to verify that
    the solution makes sense. Be sure to do this once you solve a
    problem.

    Watching this video and solving the problem should take you
    approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/c)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

-   **Did I Get This? Activity: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s
    “Example 3: Solve a Percent Problem Using a Percent Equation”**

    Link: YouTube: Mathispower4u: James Sousa’s [“Example 3: Solve a
    Percent Problem Using a Percent
    Equation”](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3x4K9zggNt8) (YouTube)

    Instructions: This video has an example for you to practice and
    check your solution. Watch the first 30 seconds of the video as the
    instructor introduces the problem. Pause the video at 0:30 and solve
    the problem. Watch the remainder of the video to check your
    solution. Notice how the instructor’s last step is to verify that
    the solution makes sense. Be sure to do this once you solve a
    problem.

    Watching this video and solving the problem should take you
    approximately 15 minutes.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3c](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3/c)

    Terms of Use: This resource is licensed under a [Creative Commons
    Attribution 3.0 Unported
    License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). It is
    attributed to James Sousa.

-   **Checkpoint: College of the Sequoias: Ross Rueger’s *Math 360 -
    PreAlgebra*: “Chapter 5, Chapter Summary and Review”**

    Link: College of the Sequoias: Ross Rueger’s *Math 360 -
    PreAlgebra*: [“Chapter 5, Chapter Summary and
    Review”](http://www.cos.edu/Faculty/rossr/Documents/5.6_chapter-5-review.pdf) (PDF)

    Instructions: Do review exercises 1 - 10 ALL, 63 - 73 ODD. You can
    find the answers
    [here](https://www.cos.edu/Faculty/rossr/Documents/5.7_ch-5-answers.pdf),
    near the end of the document on pages 420 - 421.

    Completing these problems and checking your answers should take you
    approximately 1 hour.

    Standards Addressed *(Common Core)*:

    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.1](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/1)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.2](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/2)
    -   [CCSS.Math.Content.6.RP.A.3](http://www.corestandards.org/Math/Content/6/RP/A/3)

    Terms of Use: Please respect the copyright and terms of use
    displayed on the webpage above.

**Checkpoint** <span id="2.4"></span> 
-   **Checkpoint: The Saylor Foundation’s “K12MATH006 Unit 2
    Checkpoint”**
    Link: The Saylor Foundation’s [“K12MATH006 Unit 2
    Checkpoint”](http://school.saylor.org/mod/quiz/view.php?id=1655) (HTML)  
      
     Instructions: Test your knowledge by completing this checkpoint.  
      
     Note: You must be logged into your Saylor Foundation School account
    in order to access this checkpoint. If you do not yet have an
    account, you will be able to create one, free of charge, after
    clicking the link.


